# Colophon

![Picture of Akshay](/static/headshot-640x640.webp)

I'm Akshay Shah, and you've landed on my little patch of the web---mazel tov!
As a brief introduction, I live in San Francisco and work on programming tools
at [Buf](https://buf.build). If you'd like to get in touch with me, you can
send me an [email](mailto:akshay@akshayshah.org); I'm also on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/akshayshah),
[LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/akshayjshah), and
[GitHub](https://github.com/akshayjshah).

The first thing you'll notice is that I'm the kind of person who calls this
page the colophon. What can I say? "About Me," "Meet Akshay," and "The Happy
Homepage for Rainbow Ponies" are just *so* pedestrian. I like semicolons,
parenthetical asides, fountain pens, and suede elbow patches, too. Look on the
bright side: despite my snotty East-Coast education, I still don't own a single
pair of Madras shorts.

I'm easily excited---show me something intriguing, and I'll happily spend weeks
reading and experimenting. In the past, I've made fountain pen nibs and
medieval iron-gall ink, roasted my own coffee beans and opened a small espresso
shop, led a cross-country bicycle trip, and mistakenly concocted an underwater
blasting compound. Thus far, all lost fingertips have been successfully
reattached.

Professionally, I've been a public school teacher, an EMT, and a medical
student. After finishing medical school in 2011, I moved to California and
decided to pursue a career in software. If youâ€™re interested, stay tuned for a
post about leaving medicine for Silicon Valley.

Like the best software, this blog scratches a personal itch: I tend to scribble
notes while I'm thinking, but I miss longer-form writing. If my notes can be
polished into posts that other people find useful or entertaining, then I'll be
thrilled; if not, I'll enjoy the process anyways. Plus, setting up the first
version of this site was a fun technical project.
