# Colophon

<img alt="" src="/static/headshot-640x640.webp" height="300px" width="300px">

I'm Akshay Shah, and you've landed on my little patch of the web --- mazel tov!
As a brief introduction, I live in San Francisco and build programming tools at
[Buf](https://buf.build). If you'd like to get in touch with me, you can send
me an [email](mailto:akshay@akshayshah.org); I'm also on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/akshayshah),
[LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/akshayjshah), and
[GitHub](https://github.com/akshayjshah).

The first thing you'll notice is that I'm the kind of person who calls this
page the colophon. What can I say? "About Me," "Meet Akshay," and "The Happy
Homepage for Rainbow Ponies" are just *so* pedestrian. I like semicolons,
parenthetical asides, fountain pens, and suede elbow patches, too. Look on the
bright side: despite my snotty East-Coast education, I still don't own a single
pair of Madras shorts.

I'm easily excited --- show me something intriguing, and I'll happily spend
weeks reading and experimenting. In the past, I've made fountain pen nibs and
medieval iron-gall ink, roasted my own coffee beans and opened a small espresso
shop, led a cross-country bicycle trip, and mistakenly concocted an underwater
blasting compound. Thus far, all lost fingertips have been successfully
reattached.

Professionally, I've been a public school teacher, an EMT, and a medical
student. After finishing medical school in 2011, I moved to California and
decided to pursue a career in software. I spent a few years as a full-stack web
engineer at an enterprise software startup, worked for a few years on Uber's
core infrastructure, started my own venture-backed company, and briefly worked
at Microsoft on Azure. These days, I build better tools for Protocol Buffers at
[Buf](https://buf.build). I remain convinced that programming is the _best_ job
on Earth.
